Alif Lam Meem, Allah, La ilaha illa Huwa Al-Hibb Al-Qayyum,
Nazala alayka Al-Kitab Bil-Haqq Musabdiqa Lima Bayna Yadihi Wa Anzala Al-Tawrat Wa Al-Injeel,
Min Qabnu Hudan Li Al-Nas Wa Anzala Al-Furqan,
Inna Allatheena Kafuroo Bi Ayat Allahi Lahum Azaabuhu Shadeed,
Wa Allahu Azizun Zuntiqan,
Inna Allaha La Yahta Aleyhi Shajajin Fi Al-Ardi Wa La Fi Al-Sama'a
Assalamu Alaikum Wa Rahmatullahi Wa Barakatuh
Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem, Alhamdulillahi Rabbil Aalameen
Wa Salatu Wa Salamu Ala Al-Mab'uthi Rahmatan Lila Aalameen
Nabi'ina Muhammadin Wa Ala Aalihi Wa Sahbihi Wa Al-Tabi'ina
Wa Man Tabi'ahum Bi Ihsanin Ila Yumi Al-Din
We commence by praising Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
sending blessings and salutations upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
and all his companions, may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them,
may he bless his entire household,
and may he bless every single one of us and grant us every form of goodness.
This evening, mashaAllah, we read very powerful verses of Surah Al-An'am,
where Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has made mention of some of what has occurred
during the Meccan period,
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has comforted Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
Perhaps tomorrow we will go through some of these verses,
and we will see how and when they were revealed.
Some of them are connected to the persecution
faced by those who accepted Islam early on.
And as we do know and we learned yesterday,
the first person to accept the message of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
was his own wife Khadijah radiallahu anha,
may Allah be pleased with her.
And thereafter, we have Ali ibn Abi Talib radiallahu anhu,
who was only 10 years old, a young boy at the time,
he was the first boy to accept Islam, the second person to accept Islam.
He agreed with Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam immediately,
because they knew the man was truthful,
they knew the credentials of this man,
they knew exactly what his standing was,
and they knew that he was not in a position to come to them
and to tell them some lies.
And over and above that, the message itself was so pure, so pristine,
common sense would be that it is calling towards that which is purity.
It is not calling towards his own elevation,
worshipping him, giving him wealth, acknowledging him and so on.
No, it was to do with the link between a man and his maker.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us that link
and may he make us from those who understand.
We have thereafter, we made mention of Zayd ibn Harithah radiallahu anhu,
and how he refused to go back with his parents,
and instead he decided to remain with Muhammad ibn Abdullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
Then the daughters of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
we made mention of them, may Allah be pleased with them.
They too, subhanallah, accepted what their dad had to say,
their father had to say.
He was a role model for them from before nubuwa and prophethood.
He was already the person whom they looked up to,
they loved him so much, he was upright,
he had a very, very high standing even in Quraish.
He was known as as-Sadiq al-Ameen,
the truthful, the trustworthy from the beginning,
subhanallah, from many, many years before that.
Then we have Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu.
For your information, he suffered a lot after accepting Islam.
At this stage, Islam was only spread by word of mouth
to particular people who were chosen.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala instructed Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
to get up and warn those who were the closest to him
in what was known as the secret call or the call
which was preliminary, the first call.
And that Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
being one of the best friends,
if not the best friend of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
he was spoken to and immediately he surrendered.
He said, if you are saying this,
I immediately declare that you are definitely the worshipper
or the messenger of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and his worshipper.
So that was Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu.
So much so that he was persecuted in Makkah thereafter.
You see, news started flying and rumors started spreading.
What was this news and rumor?
People began to say,
this man has come with something new
and news started flying,
but there was no confirmed news
in the sense that Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
had not declared anything openly,
but people began to whisper.
And you and I know that when you tell someone,
don't tell anyone,
it's quicker for that type of news to spread
than when you come out openly with it.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
I think we are far worse than the people of that time
when it comes to spreading rumor
because we supposed to be believers.
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
we declare him as a Nabi,
but still we love rumor and we love gossip
and we love tales
and mostly it doesn't even affect us.
It's not connected to us
and it perhaps is lies in most cases,
but that makes the juicy iftar
that we actually spoil our fast with.
May Allah protect us.
Allahu Akbar.
Imagine having a dry piece of bread for iftar.
I think our people know what marination is all about
and they know what all the spices
and everything is all about
in order to give it the spike to make it more tasty.
Let that not happen in our speech and language
when it comes to speaking about people.
May we be upright.
May we be truthful.
May we learn to cover the faults of others
rather than what the West is teaching us today.
Go out and expose everybody.
That's the West.
That's the Western teaching.
In Islam, we are taught cover people
and remember make dua for them.
You want to address a problem,
go to them and address it directly.
You don't have to go and spread.
You spread, other people spread.
They add spices about you and you add about them.
What happens?
Society becomes a bunch of people
who are just talking about one another.
So at that particular time,
there was whisperings.
Whisperings amongst people
that there is something going on here.
Something going on here.
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
accepted the message.
He did not deny that he accepted the message.
If someone asked him,
he would not deny that I have accepted the message
and there is a message.
So the news began to spread.
We have others who accepted.
We made mention of Umm Aiman radiallahu anhu.
The one who looked after Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
from a very, very early age.
In fact, from birth, she was already there.
She was the slave of Amina binti Wahab,
the mother of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
Later on,
he inherited her from his mother sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and he freed her
when he married Khadija binti Khuwailid radiallahu anhu.
And thereafter we see
that she was one of those who accepted Islam
primarily right at the beginning.
We mentioned yesterday that when a man
has his own family members bear witness
that he is upright,
then indeed he is upright
because your family members see you 24-7.
Let's ask ourselves,
are we like that or are we the opposite?
Sometimes with us,
everybody thinks we really nice
and everybody thinks that we are really good people
and our own wives and children
are the ones who say,
this man you don't know his true colors.
You really don't know.
He troubles us, he harasses us, he swears.
When he comes home, he's a different man.
The minute he answers the phone,
the tone is such that had he spoken
with that tone in the house,
perhaps the love would have increased.
Allahu Akbar.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us
and grant us every form of lesson.
This is why Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam's family
accepted first
because he was the role model for them
right from the very beginning.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us conscious of the way
we treat our own families and family members.
So Uthman ibn Affan radiallahu anhu
was one of those who accepted Islam.
And when his uncle al-Hakam ibn Abi al-'As
found out that this Uthman ibn Affan ibn Abi al-'As
has accepted Islam,
what did his uncle do?
He went to him and said,
hey, I am disassociating myself from you completely.
You will have no link with me.
You cannot come to me
and I don't want you to come to us.
You have nothing to do with us
unless you disbelieve in Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
And Uthman ibn Affan was 34 years old at the time.
He looked at his uncle and he said,
oh uncle, do what you want.
You can cut me.
You can really disassociate from me.
I am not going to abandon what Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
has come with,
nor am I going to disbelieve.
So after some time when his uncle realized
that this young man is not going to give up anything
and he was already quite old anyway,
then they softened up.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us such understanding
that we have so many freedoms
and we have nobody blocking us and stopping us.
Why do we still not find ourselves
obeying Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala's instructions?
Another example was Az-Zubayr ibn al-'Awwam radiallahu anhu.
He was only 12 years old
and his uncle had tied him up
and they used to smoke him with the smoke of the fire
and told him as a young boy
that we want you to leave.
We want you to disbelieve in Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
The young boy,
he understood from the message
that here the people are worshipping their sticks and stones and idols
and here Muhammad ibn Abdullah is calling us to worship our maker.
He is warning us.
He is telling us to behave well,
not to drink, not to commit adultery and so on.
At that time alcohol was not prohibited yet,
but there were other rules that were in place
and subhanallah they were pure and good.
Young boy understood this.
He was not the only one.
Many of these young boys,
they understood in their teens,
they understood this
and they faced persecution from their family members.
They still did not give it up.
Subhanallah.
What were they gaining with Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
in terms of material wealth or status?
Nothing.
They were gaining nothing in terms of material wealth.
They were only pure believers.
They believed in something purely
and above the persecution,
they still remained steadfast.
Subhanallah.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala kept him.
Another one who was 17 years old,
Sa'd ibn Abi Waqqas radiallahu anhu.
For your information,
these that I have mentioned so far,
they are from the high families of Quraysh.
They are children of the lofty.
They are children of people who were well-to-do
and they had good standings and positions in Quraysh.
And this is why their parents wanted them back.
Their family members wanted them back
because to them it was an insult
for these children of ours to actually turn.
Wallahi, I need to stop there for a moment.
Some of us,
when we move around with our own daughters
who want to cover from head to toe,
we feel so bad to say,
how can I walk in the mall
whilst you covered from top to bottom?
Come on, man, you're still so young.
How, why are you covering?
Some of us discourage our own daughters
when they want to turn to their deen.
So we are also guilty sometimes.
Some of us, when our children would like to grow facial hair
following the example of all the messengers
including Jesus may peace be upon him,
then we tend to ban them.
Ban them completely.
Say, listen, you know what?
If you're not going to use this Gillette
with the shaving cream,
then you cannot live in this home.
We don't want you to look so scruffy.
We call the Sunnah scruffy,
and yet we claim to be believers.
So what is the difference between us
and the kufar of Quraysh?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
They were embarrassed
when their children accepted
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam's message.
Wallahi, sometimes we become embarrassed
at the same thing.
Why should that be?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us people
who are proud of the achievements of our children
in a way that they can correct us
and we nod our head when they arrive to say,
my son, Allah has given you that knowledge.
You came to me today.
You told it to me.
Alhamdulillah, I thank Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
for giving me a child like this.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
Wallahi, what I've said is a serious matter.
If we are weak, it's one thing.
But why should we impose that weakness
on our own children?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala forgive us
and grant us steadfastness.
So this young boy Sa'd ibn Abi Waqqas radiallahu anhu,
when his mother found out
that this son of mine
has accepted the message of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
she went up to him.
What is it, O Sa'd?
He declared, yes, it's a fact, it's true.
They did not deny it.
So she says, I will stand in the sun, in the heat
and I will not eat and I will not drink
and I am not going to move from here
until you reject Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and you come back to our idols
and you come back to the religion of your forefathers
and you worship these sticks and stones once again.
What happened to him?
He was steadfast.
He says, O my mother, that's up to you.
I am not going to give up anything.
So Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
thereafter was asked by Sa'd ibn Abi Waqqas radiallahu anhu
that look, it's the second day running,
my mother is still out there.
It's the third day running,
Obviously, there's a link.
So verses were revealed.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala sent down verses.
wa wasrayna l-insana bi wali dayhi husna
wa in jahada ka litushrik bi ma laysalaka bi ilmun
fa la tuti'humaa ilayya marji'ukum
fa unabbi'ukum bima kuntum ta'maloon
Allah has instructed you to be very kind to your parents,
even if they are non-Muslim.
Allah has instructed you to be very kind to your parents.
Remember, Allah has chosen your parents
and my parents for me and you.
We did not apply for our parents.
It's Allah's test upon us for having given us
or by having given us parents whom we have
because Allah knows that was the means of Him
bringing us into creation.
And this is why He says you need to honor that link
and you need to respect it.
But there is one exception.
Whenever they instruct you to engage in polytheism
or to misbehave spiritually
or to disobey the commands of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
that's the only time you don't obey their instruction.
Anything to do with the sin, you don't obey them.
But anything else,
no matter who your parent is and what they've done
and whatever has happened and they can be non-Muslim,
you need to obey their instructions and fulfill their rights
and you need to make sure you have been kind to them
and you have looked after them as best as you can
on condition that they have not instructed you
to do something sinful.
And this is why Allah says at the end of those verses
that you will then return to Allah,
all of you, both parties.
Then He will inform you of your deeds
and what you used to do.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
and may He forgive us.
So when those verses were revealed,
they gave comfort to Sa'ad ibn Abi Waqqas radiyaAllahu anhu.
And after some time,
you find the effects of these people's attitude calmed down.
And they also calmed down.
They softened up a little bit because they knew no turning back.
We don't know of a single person of the early Muslims
who turned back from their faith, not even one.
Because why would they have entered in the first place?
To enter the faith, you needed to have lots of courage.
You needed to go against your families and your tribe
and those who were worshipping idols and so on.
It was easier for Christians to turn to Islam
because the faith is quite similar.
But it was very difficult for the people of Quraysh
because their faith was worlds apart.
They were worshipping stones.
They never believed in the life after death.
They just thought
ما هي إلا حياتنا الدنيا نموت و نحيا
It is only this life.
We are dead, we are alive.
That's it, so enjoy life.
Like the attitude of people today.
You know what's the statement today?
They say life comes once, so enjoy it.
Go out and catch as much as you can.
Life just comes once, you're going to miss out.
We as Muslims have a different attitude.
This is your test.
The ultimate life is yet to come.
So this is why don't fool around here.
Otherwise you lose what is to come.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala forgive our sins,
our shortcomings and may He grant us a new chapter.
Remember, no matter what we've done,
Allah is غفور الرحيم.
It is us who need to turn.
Allah is most forgiving, most merciful.
We need to turn to Him before it is too late.
Another example.
The example of Talhah ibn Ubaydillah
رضي الله عنه
He was 13 years old
and he had heard from some of the rabbis,
from some of the religious people of the people of the book,
some of the qualities of a messenger who was going to come.
So what had happened?
When Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
spoke to this young boy in his early teens,
he immediately surrendered
because he said,
No, I've heard about this.
I know it's happening.
It's coming.
And if it's him, then I am with.
Subhanallah.
Imagine early teens.
Look at our youngsters.
Masha'Allah.
These were young people who changed their lives.
They knew what was right from wrong.
Subhanallah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala as old as we are,
grant us the ability to distinguish between right and wrong
and then to follow that which is right.
Even if it is against our own whims and fancies and lusts and desires.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us steadfastness.
Another example was that of Ammar ibn Yasir.
Ammar ibn Yasir radiallahu anhu and his family.
They are well known in the history of Islam.
It was known as Ali Yasir,
the family of Yasir.
Yasir was the father and Ammar was the son.
The mother was known as Sumiyyah,
the brother as well.
Subhanallah.
What happened?
They accepted Islam
and they were slaves.
They were slaves.
And what had happened?
Their master began to punish them and penalize them.
How can you declare the faith of this man
and stop worshipping the idols and so on?
Who do you think you are?
You are still a slave.
And they started being punished.
And how were they punished?
Drawn in the hot desert.
And what happened was the armor which was made of metal
was made to become so hot
and then they were made to wear it.
And on top of that they were left out in the heat.
They were tortured with fire.
They were tortured with whips.
And all they were told was just say
that I disbelieve in Muhammad.
That's it.
There's nothing else that you need to come up with.
Just say I disbelieve in the one God
and I want to return to all these idols
that you people are worshipping.
They refused.
So what happened?
The first martyr,
the first person to be killed by the kuffar of Quraysh,
by the disbelievers of Quraysh
was Sumayyah radiyaAllahu anha, Umm Yasir.
And it is so bad what they did to her.
They ripped her apart.
They literally tore her into pieces.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant her paradise.
And Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
used to pass these people.
Imagine slaves.
Today we look at people who are lower than us
in terms of finance.
And we think these people are low down
and you know, perhaps they don't have a standing.
Wallahi, get one thing right in your mind and mine.
That is, Allah does not look at your financial standing
nor does He look at your color or your body.
He looks at your heart and what is in it.
Subhanallah.
So there are people who are saints,
who are so pious,
who are the friends of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
but they live in huts
in some of the most remote areas of Africa and elsewhere.
And yet we may not even know.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant them
goodness and us as well.
So these people were martyred.
This lady, this Sumayyah radiallahu anha
was martyred when Nabi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
passed them.
He could not utter much.
They could not help much.
But he said,
sabran ala yasir
fa innama waidakumul jannah
Bear patience O family of yasir.
Our appointed time and place is paradise.
Allahu akbar.
Imagine, our appointed time and place is paradise.
Which means just bear it, bear it.
They bore it.
The one was martyred, subhanallah.
What happened to Ammar himself?
He couldn't bear it.
They came a stage when they punished him
and penalized him and he was a young boy
until he uttered the word.
He said,
Okay, I disbelieve in Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
He uttered the word.
So the Muslims were shocked.
Some of them had the statement in them saying,
This man has disbelieved.
This is the first of ours who has disbelieved.
He's given into pressure.
He has turned away.
And do you know what?
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam said,
No, his heart is full of conviction.
He has just uttered a statement by his mouth
in order to save himself.
Subhanallah.
Jibril alayhi sallatu wa sallam came down with verses
where he clarified,
Allah had clarified the condition of Ammar ibn yasir
رضي الله عنه
من كفر بالله من بعد إيمانه
إلا من أكره وقلبه مطمئن بالإيمان
ولكن من شرح بالكفر صدرا
فعليهم غضب من الله
Allah is clarifying the difference
between those who have disbelieved,
believing in that disbelief
and those who have uttered a word by their mouths
in order to protect themselves
yet their hearts are full of belief.
Allah says,
When it gets to a certain point,
then you need to know
if you've uttered a word of disbelief
in order to be protected
because you could not handle
what came in your direction
that does not automatically make you a disbeliever.
So Ammar ibn yasir رضي الله عنه
his condition was made clear
and this is what Allah سبحانه وتعالى revealed.
Imagine the persecution they went through.
Imagine what had happened to them سبحان الله
another example was that of Bilal ibn Rabah رضي الله عنه
the Abyssinian slave
who had come to Makkah المكرمة enslaved
and his master's name was Umayyah ibn Khalaf
one of the biggest enemies of Islam
one of the leaders of Quraysh
when he found out that this little slave of mine
has accepted the message of Muhammad
imagine now this was a person
who was a little bit lower down in the social standing
but one of the highest in the spiritual standing
سبحان الله
you know some people say
that the early believers were all weak and downtrodden
no that's not true
there were a few people who might have been weak
but the bulk of them were wealthy
well-to-do people from wealthy families at least
even if themselves they may not have been as wealthy
or the wealthiest
but they were from the best of families
and this is what we need to understand
not all of them were weak
but there were some who were slaves
a few a handful of them
like Bilal ibn Rabah رضي الله عنه
what happened to him
the same thing they took him out in the desert
the boulders were made hot
and he was dragged in these rocks and stones
and sand of the desert
and big boulders were put up onto his chest
and he was whipped and lashed
one after the other he bled
and he was being told disbelief in Muhammad
and he was one of those who was solid
one of the most powerful
when it comes to declaring his conviction
that there is only one God
only one
the message was a message of worshiping one Allah
so he kept on repeating
أَحَدٌ أَحَدٌ
there is only one
one God
your idols mean nothing
it's only one God
one Allah
one
he kept on repeating
and he was lashed
and he was whipped
and he was beaten
and it continued until one day
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
who was a good businessman
he spent all his wealth
buying back the slaves from people
who were punishing those slaves
who had accepted Islam
Subhanallah
so he made money
he spent it
to do what
buying back a slave from a person
for what reason
just to free them for the sake of Allah
so that they are not punished anymore
how many of us can even spend our money
when we say our money
remember one thing
my beloved brothers and sisters
the Zakah
that we give out
does not belong to us
that is Allah's wealth
we have just
placed it where it belongs
by giving it out
those compulsory charities
as we call them as Muslims
Zakah
we have to give them
whether we like it or not
doesn't belong to us
it belongs to the Almighty
all we have done
we've taken it as an Amana
as a trust
and we've put it where it belongs
but what is counted
is the fact that we were upright
and we were truthful
now if you really want to engage
in monetary charities
give something
that is from your own wealth
that you don't owe
but give out Sadaqatun Lillahat
as we call them
something for the sake of Allah
from your own heart
not that it was compulsory
so you gave it
give out more than that
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
open our doors
this Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
he did not have to do this
he was one of those
most generous people
he loved helping people in need
and when it came to Islam
imagine what type of need there was
so Bilal ibn Rabah one day
was being punished by Umayyah ibn Khalaf
and Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
was passing
and he says, oh Umayyah
aren't you ashamed of what you are doing
to this slave
a young boy helpless
what are you doing to him
so Umayyah says
you are the one who spoiled him
meaning you are also a believer
just like him
you spoiled him
he says
what will you do to save him
so Abu Bakr radiallahu anhu says
you sell him to me
he says I will sell him
here is the price
take him free the man
the man was free
subhanallah
look at Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
had guaranteed him a place in paradise already
before he died
well before he died
it was already told
a group of people
a certain number of people
were already told
that you are from amongst those in paradise
from amongst them was the same African slave
Bilal ibn Rabah
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam told him
when he came back from Mi'raj
when he came back from the ascension
he says, oh Bilal
I have heard your footsteps in paradise
subhanallah
inshallah we will get to that
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us
and strengthen us
so that was the example of Bilal ibn Rabah radiallahu anhu
you have another example of Abdullah ibn Mas'ud
radiallahu anhu
we hear his name so many times
with so many ahadith
and we hear his name
when it comes even to the tafseer of the Quran
and we hear that he was an expert in recitation
in tafseer, in hadith
he was an expert in deen at large obviously
subhanallah radiallahu anhu
may Allah be pleased with him
what was he doing?
he was a young man who was a shepherd
he used to heard the flock of the leaders of Quraysh
and when he saw some clear signs
in that which Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
was calling towards
and when he heard the message of goodness
and he heard that the message is all about fulfilling your duty
being a good person
being upright
being noble
not lying, not cheating, not stealing, not deceiving
not committing adultery, not swearing and so on
he immediately accepted it
and he became from amongst the muslimin
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala strengthen them all
and grant us also goodness
and another very interesting story
a man known very commonly as Abu Dhar al-Ghifari radiallahu anhu
from a place known as Ghifar
Ghifar between Mecca and Al-Sham
going up to the Syrian region
as we had mentioned Al-Sham
there is a place not very far from Mecca known as Ghifar
that's where they used to pass from with their caravans
so he heard that there is a messenger in Mecca
and this is what he is uttering
so he tells his brother Unais
he says oh my brother you know what we've heard this
pack a little bit of provision for yourself
go to Mecca and listen to what this man has to say
and bring back some news
so the brother went to Mecca quietly
and he listened to what Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
had to say
and thereafter he went back to Ghifar
and he spoke to Abu Dhar
and Abu Dhar his name was Jundub ibn Junada radiallahu anhu
that was his proper name Jundub ibn Junada
they used to call him Abu Dhar
as we mentioned yesterday
Abdullah ibn Uthman is the name of Abu Bakr al-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
but it's just that sometimes
these names became more common
known as a kuniya
known as person father of or mother of
so and so it becomes more common
so Abu Dhar al-Ghifari heard his brother and said no no no no
that's not enough
what you are telling me
I need more than this
let me pack my own little provisions and go
so obviously he was told by his brother of the condition in Mecca
that you see the Quraish there
they are really persecuting those who have believed
so just mind your step
so Abu Dhar al-Ghifari radiallahu anhu went to Mecca
he got to the Kaaba
and he didn't want to ask anyone
who is Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
because he said just now I asked the wrong person
and I'm in trouble
so he decided to wait for a while
according to one of the narrations
and looking around and seeing and nightfall came
and he was still watching
and Ali ibn Abi Talib radiallahu anhu saw this man
and recognized that this man is not from here
so he says come I give you a bedding you can sleep
so he gave him a bedding
and he spent the night there
and the following day he packed his provisions again
and he went back to that area around the Kaaba
and he spent a while
now at that time the pagan Arabs
they had lots of
meaning some of the good qualities that they had
was hospitality
entertaining the guests
they would not ask people for three days
they wouldn't ask that
why have you come here
with us we have a habit
when you came
and what's the next question
when you're going you see everybody's laughing here
when you came and when you're going
mashaAllah I hope that is asked with a good heart
because you want to help a person
you know go nicely alhamdulillah
but what happens is
with them they didn't used to ask a question
why you came
no
when are you going
three days later
it was their right to ask look why have you come here
because they believe that
and Islam for your information
reiterated that goodness
and said even as Muslims
for three days
your guest has a right
thereafter
alhamdulillah
you can ask them questions
and you can even begin to charge them for your hospitality
you know up to very recently
those who've been for Hajj
in the 60s and so on
they will tell you
that in Saudi Arabia
those who used to go for Hajj
in the 1960s and earlier
nobody asked them for three days
to pay anything
the Muallim that was there
you could stay with him
and three days later
you had to decide
whether you wanted to be there or not
perhaps
they started charging
because of some wise cracks like us
we go here three days
when we see we've overstayed here
we go to another man's place for three days
when we see we've overstayed there
we go to another man's for three days
until the Hajj is over
so I think to cover that
we're charged
even before we arrive
have you noticed that now?
MashaAllah
may Allah protect us
and may He make it easy for us
Allahu Akbar
you missed your flight
you dead meat
why?
you didn't arrive
but your money's gone
Allahu Akbar
not only for the flight that you're going to have to pay
now for the new one
but
even for the day that you didn't stay
they tell you money's gone
and on top of that
your accommodation was given to someone else
have you heard this?
I'm sure those who've been
it sounds all too common to them
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us hospitality
may He make us from those
who stand upright
really
and may He make us from those
who realize and learn a lesson
even if it means
learning a lesson from the ignorant
where they are correct
if they are correct
subhanallah
so
Ali ibn Abi Talib
the third day
he asks Abu Dhar
can I ask you why you are here?
so Abu Dhar al-Ghifari
radiallahu anhu
he says
if you promise me
that you're not going to harm me
and if you promise me
that I'm safe and secure
by telling you why I'm here
then I can let you know
so he says I promise
he says I have heard
there is a messenger
who calls towards goodness
he calls towards worshiping one Allah
he calls towards abandoning the idols
he calls towards respect of parents
he calls towards being upright
and fulfilling the rights
he calls towards the banning of
burying girls and women alive
the maltreatment of women and so on
so I have come to see him
and to pledge allegiance with him
so Ali ibn Abi Talib
radiallahu anhu told him
he is indeed a messenger
and yes
he is in our midst
how fortunate was this man
he arrived at the right man's place
so he said tomorrow morning
you follow me
we don't want people to see you with me
but you follow me
if there is any harm
I'll pretend like I'm pouring some water
if I pretend like I'm pouring some water
you know that now you don't follow me
you can head in your own direction
but if there is no harm
you follow me and I'll take you
all the way to this place
and you'll meet him
so Subhanallah
the following day
that's exactly what happened
the two of them followed each other
and Masha'Allah
they arrived
in the presence of Rasulullah
sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Abu Dharr al-Ghifari
radiallahu anhu heard
as he entered words of Muhammad
sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and he broke down
and immediately declared his Shahadah
I bear witness that there is no god but Allah
and I bear witness that Muhammad is His servant and His messenger
and he told Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
where he had come from
and what had happened
and Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
made a dua for him
and told him go back to your people
and wait there
until you hear of me
you know
in a way that will be much more open than this
and in a short period of time
the open call had taken place
and news spread across the entire peninsula
Subhanallah
there is a history of what happened to Ghifar
Allahu Akbar
the dua of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Abu Dharr al-Ghifari
members of his family accepted Islam
members of his clan accepted Islam
they went back to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam later on
perhaps inshallah we will get there at that stage
so this was
the plight of the people
the condition of the people who came
even during this period of silence
where they came from afar
to look for the truth
and they found it
and they adopted it and accepted it
we have also
the others whom we need to make mention of
in fact Abu Dharr al-Ghifari
we are not yet completed with the story
there is a point that is made mention of where
when he was so excited
that he had accepted Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam's call
he went out by the Kaaba
and made the announcement
I bear witness that there is only one
there is only Allah worthy of worship
no one else
and I bear witness that Muhammad is his messenger
sallallahu alayhi wasallam
the people of Quraysh began to beat him up
then
they started beating him up so much
that they made him bleed
according to one narration
Al-Abbas ibn Abdul Muttalib got up
and told the people of Quraysh
hey hang on
this man is from Ghifar
do you know where Ghifar is?
Ghifar comes on the way to Sham
we pass there with our caravans and our wealth
we are going to be really in big trouble
if we have made this man suffer here
you'd better stop
and that's when they stopped
Subhanallah
imagine
their wealth was more important than anything else
they knew
we are now going to pass on our own
with this caravan going past Ghifar
there's going to be an issue
so that is why they stopped
then we have the others just to mention some of the names
we have Abdur Rahman ibn Awf radiallahu anhu
Abu Ubaidah, Amir ibn Al-Jarrah radiallahu anhu
Uthman ibn Maz'oon
Saeed ibn Zaid radiallahu anhu
his wife Fatima bint Al-Khattab
she accepted Islam very early
the sister of Umar ibn Al-Khattab radiallahu anhu
another one who accepted Islam was Khabbab ibn Al-Arat
we will come to his story as well inshallah
and Khalid ibn Saeed ibn Al-Aas
and another one who accepted Islam from the Makhzum tribe
was a man known as Al-Arqam
ibn Abi Al-Arqam
he was also in his teens
and he accepted Islam from a very lofty family
a lot of these people Quraish was scared of harming them
because of the family, because of the clan
sometimes people want to beat you up
but they see you've got a brother
so they look, they say
you didn't have that guy as your brother
we would have beaten him up Subhanallah
or they see you've got a bit of power
or you do business with them
so they keep quiet because of the business
this is the policy of the people of Quraish
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us forgiveness and steadfastness
so Al-Arqam ibn Abi Al-Arqam
his house was then used as a secret meeting point
to learn and study revelation
and the deen that was being revealed
the verses at the time that were being revealed
were connected to the oneness of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
belief in the life after death
heaven and hell
and the various teachings of Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
connected to belief
because that was what was the most important thing
at that particular time
the belief had to be corrected
it was filthy at the time
and it would only be cleansed through tawheed
and this is why one of the most important aspects
was the fact that these idols
and everything besides Allah
cannot harm or benefit
it is only Allah who is in absolute control of everything
so you worship Allah alone
so they used to gather in the house of Al-Arqam ibn Abi Al-Arqam
radiallahu anhu
and they used to learn the verses
that were being revealed one by one
remember the verses were not all revealed at once
but they were revealed bit by bit
as something happened the verses were revealed inshallah
we will get to see a little bit more of that later on in the month
then we have subhanallah
something very important
what happened is
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
met Jibreel alayhi sallatu wa sallam once
when he was in a certain part of Mecca
and Jibreel alayhi sallatu wa sallam
taught him wudhu
wudhu is the ablution
how we wash ourselves before we come in for prayer and salah
and how that happened is
a little rock was made
to gush water from
and that water was used for Jibreel alayhi sallam
who had come in the form of a human being
to make wudhu whilst Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
was watching and then he repeated the wudhu
and then Jibreel alayhi sallam
taught him salah
and Ibn Hisham makes mention of this in his seerah
that Jibreel alayhi sallam
taught Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
salah at the very early stages
although it was not compulsory as it is today
when salah was first revealed
it was only two rak'ah at a time
mathna mathna two rak'ah two rak'ah
and it was a means of ibadah
an act of worship
those who wanted to worship
this is the way they would worship Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
put their heads on the ground for Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
slightly different from what came later on
we know that salah became compulsory at mi'raj
but it was taught before that
because Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
used to read salah at night
and the sahabah radiallahu anhum
prior to mi'raj
they used to offer voluntary prayers at night
this is mentioned in the surahs in the Quran
and this is how it had started
so if someone asks you
when was salah made compulsory
you say upon mi'raj
and when was salah taught to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
in the early stages
during the silent call
to the family members and friends
in Makkah al-Mukarramah
we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to make us steadfast with salah
we look at salah today as a burden
yet it was given as a gift by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to us
the day we consider salah a gift
we will be able to achieve its true sweetness
and we will be able to taste the benefit of that salah
when we fulfill salah because we want to fulfill it
not because we have to fulfill it
as I said earlier before the Isha salah
there is a difference between fulfilling a prayer
because you have to do it
and doing it because you want to do it
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us from those who fulfill it
because we want to fulfill it
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala accept it from us
so that was a little bit about the history of how
salah was taught to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
then we have another very very interesting incident
that occurred at the time of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
at that stage when they wanted to pray
they used to go out, they used to hide
they used to go into some of the valleys
they used to go to the outlying areas of Makkah
and they used to pray
and they had not yet got to 40 people
30 something people
that is the number of people who had accepted
slowly but surely
and then Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
revealed verses to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
وَأَنذِرْ عَشِيرَتَكَ الْأَقْرَبِينَ
warn your family, your tribesmen, the kindred, those around you
warn them
now that meant that now we can no longer be silent
we now got to warn the people
so what did Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam do?
I'm going to make mention of the story
which is very moving and very touching
and it should serve as a lesson to all of us
he gathered the people of the tribes
that were considered his own asheera
his own people
he called them tribe by tribe
from the mount of Safa where he had climbed up
it was quite a high mount
he climbed up and he began to call the names of these little tribes
and he called the names of certain people as well
so everyone was shocked
because there was rumour around
and there was persecution obviously, individually
but on a wholesale level
no one dared had the guts
to do what Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam had just done
and this is why they were shocked
this man has just called out
what is it? is he wanting to give up everything?
well if that happens then it will be good for us
but they were in for something else
as they went some of the leaders couldn't make it
so they sent representatives
one of the people who came there Abu Lahab
who was one of the uncles of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
he was actually an uncle of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
and he arrived there
and they all looking and listening and waiting
what is this man about to say?
so he makes an announcement
and he's standing at the top and they all listening to him
he says if I were to tell you
that at the back of this mountain
there is an army of horsemen
coming to attack you, to destroy you
would you believe what I have just said?
and all of them said
yes indeed we have never heard you lie
imagine
we have never heard you lie
subhanallah
we would believe you immediately
he says
فَإِنِّ نَذِيرٌ لَكُمْ بَيْنَ يَدَي عَذَابٍ شَدِيدٍ
so I am warning you
of a severe punishment that is about to come
subhanallah
I am warning you of a punishment that is about to come
and then he began to tell them
to do good deeds because
he will not be able to save them from that fire
or from that punishment just because he is a tribesman
or he is a family man
or he is a relative
he won't be able to save them
so he came out
saying the names of the clans
he says
save yourself from the fire
saying the names of certain people
for I will not be able to help you
and he delivered the message openly
so that was the reason why he had gathered them
around that Mount Safa
and how he started the message
just to prove to them that you consider me truthful
if I were to lie
I would not have lied about this particular thing
and you know that I am not a liar
but still Abu Lahab
with his big mouth
and arrogance because of his standing in Quraysh
and he was the son of a top leader of Quraysh
and this was his nephew
but he had no respect for his nephew
because this would mean he's acknowledging a man above him
you see this was the problem with the people
they did not want to accept
because they would be acknowledging someone above them
they thought we're going to lose our power
we're going to lose this throne that we're sitting on
the wealth that we're sitting on
this man is going to take over everything
and if we acknowledge and we accept
what will happen to us
so they refused
Abu Lahab says
تَبَّلَّكَ يَا مُحَمَّدُ
destruction be upon you O Muhammad
أَلِي هَذَا جَمَعْتَنَا
is this why you gathered us here
and the people were looking at him
because he had the guts
that was a swear word basically
meaning insulting Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
تَبَّلَّكَ
the others were quiet
so what happened
Allah سبحانه وتعالى sent
Jibreel عليه الصلاة والسلام
with one of the most powerful
most eloquent surahs
that had been revealed up to that time
and so easy to memorize
that even the children of Quraysh
memorize these verses
and on the streets
everyone was uttering them
Muslim and non-Muslim
Subhanallah
what were the verses
this man Abu Lahab
he said
تَبَّلَّكَ يَا مُحَمَّدُ
destruction be upon you O Muhammad
so Allah says
تَبَّتْ يَدَى أَبِي لَهَبٍ وَتَبَّ
مَا أَغْنَى عَنْهُ مَالٌ وَمَا كَسَبٍ
سَيَصْلَى نَاراً ذَا تَلَهَبٍ
وَامْرَأَتُهُ حَمَّالَةَ الحَطَبٍ
فِي جِيدِهَا حَبْلٌ مِّمَّ سَدٍ
Allah says
destruction be to both your hands
O Abu Lahab
a total destruction
his wealth will not help him in any way
nothing
his wealth did not assist him or help him
neither in his life nor in his death
because that is the Quranic injunction
and nothing that he earned will help him
Abu Lahab
and he will indeed go into hell fire
Abu Lahab and his wife
who is the carrier of the fuel
الحطب means the firewood
why was she termed the carrier of the firewood
the one who kindled the fire
in which they would both burn
because she had a very bad habit
lesson for us to learn
she used to go around the women of Quraysh
gossiping, talking about Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
adding spices and lying
lying to them about what he used to say
and she had a habit of going around
telling this one, that one
today Vodacom has made it easy for us
Allah protect us
they tell you night shift from 12 to 5
one wonders who calls at the time
but dial, numbers engaged
what's happening
we don't want to be حمالة الحطب
والله
we don't want to be carriers of that fuel
talk about this one, talk about that one
no
if you don't need it
let that night shift pass
the month expire
they tell you, you no longer deserve that
and you haven't even used it once
but you saved yourself from the fire of Jahannam
why do we need to call just because it's free
these free minutes
and this free method of communication
use it for the benefit of Allah سبحانه وتعالى
meaning for the benefit of us
when it comes to our link with Allah سبحانه وتعالى
and don't use it for our destruction
so Ummu Jamil, that was her name
Allah describes her, Allah says
you know في جيدها
a جيد is this neck
tender, soft, beautiful neck known as جيد
and then Allah says
on that neck
there is حبلم من مسد
there is more or less a necklace of thorns
so to speak
سبحان الله
imagine a necklace of a rope
full of thorns on that neck
by which she shall be pulled
الله أكبر
Allah protect us
look at the description
so as lofty as she seems she is
and as well dressed as she may be
and as one of the wives of one of the leaders of Quraysh
as she may think she is
Allah says watch out
you will be dragged into the fire
and it is going to happen
now one of the secrets of the Qur'an is
when the Qur'an has cursed someone by name
there is no hope of them accepting Islam ever
it's over
so she was so angry
she actually went
a few days later or the next day
and she picked up a stone
and wanted to throw it upon Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
when he was sitting near the Ka'bah with Abu Bakr as-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
but Allah made her blind
so she looks at Abu Bakr
as-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
and Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم is right next to him
and she says Abu Bakr
where is that friend of yours?
if I see him I will throw this rock on him and so on
and Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
tells Abu Bakr as-Siddiq رضي الله عنه
Ya Aba Bakr
Allah has made her blind from seeing me
so she can't see me
Subhanallah
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala save Goddess
Inshallah we will continue tomorrow
if Allah gives us the life
and the memory Inshallah to continue from where we left off
until then we say
وَصَلَى اللَّهُ وَسَلَّمَهُ وَبَارَكَ عَلَى نَبِينَ مُحَمَّدٍ
Subhanallah bi hamdih
Subhanaka Allahumma bi hamdika
nashhadu alla ilaha illa anta
nastaghfiruka wa natubu ilayk